Prevention is better than cure, we had heard this in our childhood,
but actually people are
implementing it nowadays. Earlier, if there was
any problem or any problem,
we would go to the doctor, if there was any illness,
we would go to the doctor, now
what is it, we take care of ourselves, take
care of our health, do annual health
checkups, regularly
monitor our health and eat good food, so these are the
steps to prevent any illness in the future,
you are already
staying healthy. Similarly, your health
and join company focuses on your health, that is,
mainly you take a health and
wellness policy because you are
afraid of illness, you think that if you ever get
any illness, then
who will bear the expenses, that is why we take a health insurance
policy, but what is it nowadays,
in health and wellness policy, focus on wellness, also they focus on
your illness, they
focus on your health, they
give you complimentary annual checkups, the
policy is most of  D policy it give
end where you can avail and you
can take care of your health so
today we will talk about that how you
can make your complimentary balance test available what things you have to keep in mind
before taking the complimentary test
which companies will compare some major companies
how much the checkup is given
and which tests are covered so
before starting the video I would
like to introduce myself my name
is Ruling Kaushik and I am a certified
financial planner every week I bring you
videos that
make your personal financial and happy
because the tagline of the company is also creating a
wealth of happiness let's move
towards today's video annual health checkups
in your health and insurance policy so the first
question you will have is what is the benefit
of health insurance company by doing annual health checkup I
mean
what is their benefit by taking care of our health absolutely it is beneficial
if you take care of your health
if you keep doing annual health checkups then what will happen
why will the insurance company's profits decrease  How will you earn because if you keep doing health
checkups, if there is any division, say
your HBA1c is high, your sugar level is
high, then you will visit me immediately,
you will take it from me, you will
improve your diet, you will help yourself and take care, so the claim
which was supposed to come has been deferred, that claim will
not come, it may
come after some time, it may come, so the
Health and Sorance Company is thinking about itself as well as
about you
that you should also take care of your health
and their claims should also come to a minimum, what steps will be taken for that, so in
this, both thyroid and thr
situation for both, here I
would like to tell that the complimentary health checkup is available at different
times in different policies,
so the first thing
you need to check is
when can you claim your complimentary annual health checkup,
in many policies,
you become eligible with the policy itself, whether
you can avail it immediately or you
can avail it after 30 days  What
happens in many policies is that when you
renew your policy, meaning you are
renewing your policy with the company today for the next year, then in a
way the
company is giving you a loyalty benefit that you got your
policy reviewed through us, so we give you annual
health check updates. Many companies
give you this along with purchasing the policy. If you have purchased a
policy from us, then where giving you an opportunity, I can try
annual health check up. So you
can check which feature is available in your policy that
you can avail on policy or renewal.
Accordingly, by checking that, you
can plan your annual health checkup. Secondly, you should
check whether the person who does your annual health check is
cashless and has reimbursement.
You will see that there are some companies which
also do cashless, meaning they have their own network, they will
provide their network and it will be cashless. You have to
book through them, you can
book through their application, you can book by calling them, you can book by
emailing them
and you can tell them your suitable date and time.
You do that test and they  It is cashless,
you do not have to pay anything. Secondly, you
can do it for 10 minutes also. So, in many companies, there
is a policy that both cashless and investment are available.
In this, you will see that only cashless is available.
In many companies, only investment is available, so
you should get the test done accordingly. It should not happen
that you get the test done and find out that your
company was only doing cashless and was doing it
through its network, reimbursement is
not available at all. So, please check
your policy before doing your annual health
checkup. Thirdly, in every annual health
checkup, you will be given a limit. That
limit will be as per the short cut, that you will be
given some percentage of the short cut that you can test so many people
or you will be given limited time for it.
Suppose, if it is a policy of Rs 10 lakh,
then you can do tests up to 5000. The
tests will be defined in this way. It is different for individual
policies,
so now you can check the list and
you can do the test accordingly.
Here, I would like to tell one more thing, sometimes
it happens that you only get so much  Value
tests have to be done in some policies. In some
policies, it will also be there that you have to do the tests from the same list.
You can do the tests from the specified list only. So
keep these things in mind. So, if
you do the tests, you go and do a full body
checkup and find out that the insurance
company had its own list. You
can do the tests from that only. So, to avoid any disappointment,
you can check your wellness limit,
when can you do it and which tests
are available. So, so that
you do not face any disappointment in the future, the
next point you should keep in
mind is for whom the tests are
available. So here I
would like to tell you that in many policies, it is available that
any family member can do it. Any
person covered in the policy can do it.
In many policies, it is said that only those
above 18 years of age who are covered in the policy can do it. Next,
here you have to keep this thing in
mind that when you do your checkup,
its terms and conditions.
Read the terms and conditions of the annual health checkup properly.
Sometimes, it may happen that a single
person will have to undergo all the tests on the same day.
For example, if there are
four people in my family, then if I am going for a test, then whatever tests are
available to me,
I will get them done in a single day only. It is
not that I have done one test today and will get the same
after six months. This will
not work. I will be given that window in a single day or within
two to three days.
During that time, I have to undergo my annual health
checkup. So, please check this thing
because sometimes this happens, then we
say that the insurance company has said
that complimentary health checkup
is available but has not given the claim.
After this, a very important
point came to my mind because you people ask that if you get an
annual haircut, will that be
considered a claim because you know that if you
clear your health and policy, then
you are given a job and some
benefits are given, will those be lost?  It is
not like that, your annual health
checkup is absolutely separate
from your claims, so it will not be
considered a claim. This is a wellness benefit that the
company is offering,
which you can avail complimentary, it is
your choice. I believe that you should avail it.
You should get tested once annually
and if it is done at the company's cost, then
what is better than that,
you get all the health reports, but this will
not be considered a claim in your policy. This is a wellness
benefit, a separate complimentary benefit
that the company is giving you. Next, I will
talk to you about some companies I am picking,
which tests are available, till when can you do the
test, is it cashless or on a
ring bus, this is true, your knowledge can
change from time to time.
This is correct from today's date when we are making the video, so as of today's date, if
you are getting the test done in the future, then
verify it once from the insurance company.  Is
this information correct or has there been some change?
So here we are comparing some companies for you to see
what
tests are available. So you can see
which tests are available in your policy.
You can clean accordingly.
So these were the details from my side. Annual health
checkup in your health and policy and
how can you make them available. Which
tests can you do? How much can you test?
I want to die. Do this test again, do
not miss it.
You should 100% verify this annual test. You will be able to take care of your health.
That is why if you
found this video useful, you can share it
with your friends and family.
Quick reminder before the end. If
you have not yet subscribed to our channel, do
subscribe for now. You get the right
information and right now. If you
want to recharge us for any of your queries,
you can call us. We have given you WhatsApp
number and email ID and a link has
also been given. If you fill in your information in it, then
our team will  Get it done, see
you soon with the next video with a
new topic, thank you so much, let's
move on to today's video, annual health
check up in yours,
details from my side
[Music]